
		Q T E R M  -  Q U E R Y   T E R M I N A L

			    Version 5.0

Qterm is a program that queries terminals to find out what kind of
terminal is responding.  It is useful to automagically define your
terminal type.  It prints the name of the terminal (compatible,
hopefully, with a termcap/terminfo name) such as "vt100" to standard
output.  See the manual for details.

The major changes in these version of qterm is a re-write of command
line parsing and the options qterm accepts.  I've written a new,
"generic" command line parsing package called "options" which is
included as part of this distribution of qterm.  (See the options.3
man page for details on programming with the options package.)  Qterm
now has a totally new set of (hopefully) clear and concise options.
The old command line options are still accepted if qterm is compiled
with OPT_COMPAT defined (see Makefile).  WARNING: Some of the old
options conflict with the new options.  i.e.  If OPT_COMPAT is
defined, "qterm -file foo" does not do what you think it will.  This
is parsed as "qterm -f ile foo".

Qterm was written under 4.[23] BSD and will probably run without
modification on other Berkeley Unix systems.  This version has also
been tested under UTS 2.1 which is a System V.3 derivative.  It was
compiled with "USG5" defined and setting $(LIBS) to "-lPW".  (See
Makefile for more info).  It should work on other System V platforms.

It has been running at one point or another here at USC on:

	Sun-3, Sun-4, Sun386i's under SunOS 3.X, 4.0, 4.0.3, 4.1, 4.1.1
	Alliant's under Concentrix 3.X, 4.X, 5.X
	IBM RT's under ACIS 4.2 and 4.3
	DEC VAX & DEC RISC under Ultrix 2.2, 3.1, 4.0, 4.1
	4.[23]BSD (VAX)
	4.3BSD [MORE/bsd] (HP)
	Amdahl UTS (System V.3) 2.1

If you have Internet access, the latest and greatest version of qterm
is available from "usc.edu" via anonymous ftp in the file
/pub/qterm.shar.  I update this file whenever there are any changes,
so it's bound to be newer than a copy from any other source.


Michael A. Cooper, University Computing Services, U of Southern California
  INTERNET: mcooper@usc.edu	            PHONE: 213-740-2957
  UUCP: ...!uunet!usc!mcooper              BITNET: mcooper@gamera
