This directory contains a modified set of standalone programs from 7th Edition
Unix, ostensibly to allow the support of the Virtual Tape Drive, Vtserver.
However, it provides a base on which to provide install bootstrapping for
other versions of Unix.

	Warren Toomey	wkt@cs.adfa.oz.au	March 1998

Caveat
------

Obviously, to build these programs, you are going to need the V7 compiler,
the V7 libc.a, and probably some of the original V7 development environment.
I use my Apout emulator to run the V7 binaries on my FreeBSD box.

Available Standalone Programs
-----------------------------

boot.c			2nd stage bootstrap, loads remaining other prgrams
cat.c			Cat program, allows you to read tape records on screen
compress.c		Zcat: uncompresses tape records & write it direct to
			disk. Useful for downloading compressed disk images.
dd.c			Simple dd: reads blocks in from one device, and writes
			them out to another device.
icheck.c		Check the V7 filesystem on a disk device.
mkfs.c			Make a V7 filesystem on a disk device.
restor.c		Restore a V7 dump onto a disk device.

	The standalone library which these programs use is held in

SYS.c
prf.c
conf.c
M.s
srt0.s

	The devices available which can be read from & written to are:

hp.c			RP04/RP06 disk driver
ht.c			TJU16 tape driver
rk.c			RK05 disk driver
rl.c			RL01/02 disk driver
rp.c			RP03 disk driver
tm.c			TM11 tape driver
vt.c			Client for Virtual Tape Server
conf.c			Holds the table describing all devices

	All devices run in poll mode, so it should be relatively easy
	to write drivers for other devices: please send them in if you do!

Other Programs and Files
------------------------

Here is a list of the other programs and files in this directory

maketape.c		V7 make tape program, see rktapedir
mymktape.c		My version which writes tape images for Bob Supnik's
			PDP-11 emulator, and the Ersatz-11 emulator.
vtcat.c			A user-mode program for V7 which can talk to the
			Virtual Tape Server.


cc+ld-stand		Shell script to compile standalone programs
contents		Description of original V7 distribution tape 
cpgroup			Original V7 script, use unknown
makefile		Makefile to compile all the bits & pieces
makefile.old		Original V7 makefile
mtboot.s		1st stage bootstrap for TM11
rkcontents		Description of original V7 distribution tape
rktapedir		Input file for maketape, mymaketape. This describes
			what files become what records, and the blocking size
tapedir			Original V7 file, also input for maketape
vtboot.s		1st stage bootstrap for Virtual Tape Client
