UNIX V6 on the Supnik simulator:
--------------------------------
This directory contains tape files for the Supnik simulator and
accompaning README files, which I produced when preparing an OS
course at the Berufsakademie. Further it contains C-sources of two
commands (enblock.c/deblock.c). These commands prepare a tapefile for the
simulator (enblock) and produce a plain file from a simulator
tapefile (deblock).

The Supnik simulator can be obtained from:
	ftp://minnie.cs.adfa.edu.au/pub/PDP-11/Sims/Supnik_2.3/sources/
I used the sim_2.3d.tar.gz tar ball.

This directory contains a *.README and *.enb files with the following
basenames:

ctable: A bug in the input table for the C-compiler code generator is fixed.
ctime:	Some y2k related changes to V6.
dcheck: Bug fix and enhancement of dcheck. 
dist:	The V6 distribution tape: dist.README explains how to install
	and setup UNIX-V6 with the simulator. The file dist.enb is missing
	for copyright and space reasons, you have to prepare it yourself.
	(see enb.README). 
dotdot: Kernel enhancement: If in a root directoy of a mounted filesystem,
	let ".." mean the parent of the mount point, not the root directory.
enb:	Conventions and usage of .enb files. Explains how to
	prepare tape files for the Supnik simulator and tells you
	how to prepare the V6 distribution tape.
ludiv:	Derivation of a double word unsigned division algorithm, which is used
	in ctime. (no corresponding .enb)
man:	The man command, which was missing from the distribution, and some
	changes to make V6-nroff output readable on an xterm.

So enb.README and dist.README are the next files you should read.

If you have questions or find bugs or whatever, mail to
	helbig@informatik.ba-stuttgart.de

Last but not least I thankfully acknowledge the work of the people
who talked SCO into offering the ancient-UNIX source license, who collected
the old distribution tapes and run the PUPS Archive. And of course I thank
Bob Supnik for this great simulator!

Have fun,
Wolfgang 
